---
title: "Multi-Layer Package Power/Ground Planes Synthesis with Balanced DC IR Drops: A Game-Theoretic Optimization Approach"
collection: publications
excerpt: 'As one of the earliest works focusing on the design automation of power/ground plane in packages, this paper introduces a game-theoretic optimization method aimed at evenly mitigating DC IR drops across the multi-layer package power/ground planes. Experimental results demonstrate that the maximum DC IR drop and the IR drop difference can both be significantly reduced.'
date: 2025-2-15
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems (<b>TCAD</b>), <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/11028916">Paper</a>'

citation: '<b>S.Y. Liang</b>, Z. Zhuang, K.-Y. Chao, B. Yu, and T.-Y. Ho, "Multi-Layer Package Power/Ground Planes Synthesis with Balanced DC IR Drops: A Game-Theoretic Optimization Approach," IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems (<b>TCAD</b>), 2025.'
---

Recently, the challenge of integrating an increasing number of transistors on a single die to adhere to Moore’s Law has spurred the need for innovative packaging solutions. 
Power/ground planes are integral to packages, and designers typically strive to maximize their size.
This provides shielding and maintains constant impedance for adjacent high-speed signal wires, benefiting signal integrity.
Additionally, large power/ground planes help reduce DC IR drops, enhancing power integrity.
However, the necessity for multiple power/ground nets, each requiring independent power/ground planes within a package, makes the optimal allocation of limited free space a complex task. 
In this paper, we introduce a game-theoretic optimization method aimed at evenly mitigating DC IR drops across the multi-layer package power/ground planes. 
In the formulated game of achieving the ideal power/ground plane design, we can enhance the use of package space and realize a design with evenly distributed DC IR drops across all power/ground planes. 
This is accomplished by adjusting strategies and reaching a state of Nash equilibrium in the allocation of free space.
Additionally, we propose a rapid multi-layer power/ground plane DC IR drop evaluation and a power/ground plane legalization method to bolster our optimization method.
